# Spring Curve

<!--Del-->
> **Note:**
>
> Currently in the beta phase.
<!--DelEnd-->

In the damped spring system corresponding to the spring curve (hereinafter referred to as the spring curve), an object displaced from its equilibrium position is subjected to two forces. On one hand, it experiences a restoring force generated by the spring deformation, causing it to vibrate. On the other hand, the damping provides resistance to the object's vibration. Except for the special case where damping is zero, the amplitude of the object's vibration continuously decreases during the process and eventually approaches zero. The resulting trajectory naturally corresponds to a smooth animation curve.

Animations using the spring curve reach a velocity of zero at the endpoint, avoiding the abrupt "sudden stop" effect that could negatively impact user experience.

ArkUI provides four spring curve interfaces:

- [springMotion](../reference/arkui-cj/cj-apis-curves.md#static-func-springmotionfloat32-float32-float32): Creates an elastic animation where the duration is automatically calculated based on curve parameters, the magnitude of property changes, and the initial spring velocity. The duration specified by developers does not take effect.<br> springMotion does not provide a velocity setting interface, as the velocity is inherited and does not require developer specification. For a given property, if there is currently a running springMotion or responsiveSpringMotion animation, the newly created spring animation will stop the running animation and inherit its current property values and velocity as the initial state of the new animation. Additionally, the interface provides default parameters for ease of use.

    ```cangjie
    public static func springMotion(response!: Float32 = 0.55, dampingFraction!: Float32 = 0.825, overlapDuration!: Float32 = 0.0): ICurve
    ```

- [responsiveSpringMotion](../reference/arkui-cj/cj-apis-curves.md#static-func-responsivespringmotionfloat32-float32-float32): A special case of the springMotion animation with different default parameters. It is typically used for follow-through animation scenarios. When releasing, a springMotion animation can be created, during which the release phase animation automatically inherits the velocity from the follow-through phase animation to ensure smooth transitions.<br> When the overlapDuration parameter of the new animation is not zero and the previous springMotion animation of the current property has not yet ended, the response and dampingFraction will transition from the old animation's parameter values to the new animation's parameter values over the time specified by overlapDuration.

    ```cangjie
    public static func responsiveSpringMotion(response!: Float32 = 0.15, dampingFraction!: Float32 = 0.86, overlapDuration!: Float32 = 0.25): ICurve
    ```

- [interpolatingSpring](../reference/arkui-cj/cj-apis-curves.md#static-func-interpolatingspringfloat32-float32-float32-float32): Suitable for scenarios requiring specified initial velocity. The animation duration is also automatically calculated based on interface parameters, and the duration specified by developers in the animation interface does not take effect.<br> The curve interface provides a velocity parameter. Since the interface corresponds to a damped spring curve from 0 to 1, the actual animation values are calculated through interpolation based on the curve. Therefore, the velocity should be normalized, equal to the absolute velocity of the property change divided by the magnitude of the property change. This makes it unsuitable for scenarios where the start and end property values are the same, as the property change magnitude would be zero, making the normalized velocity undefined.

    ```cangjie
    public static func interpolatingSpring(velocity: Float32, mass: Float32, stiffness: Float32, damping: Float32): ICurve
    ```

- [springCurve](../reference/arkui-cj/cj-apis-curves.md#static-func-springcurvefloat32-float32-float32-float32): Suitable for scenarios requiring direct specification of animation duration. The springCurve interface is almost identical to the interpolatingSpring interface. However, for animations using springCurve, the physical duration of the curve is mapped to the specified duration, effectively stretching or compressing the curve on the time axis, which disrupts the original physical laws of the curve. Therefore, its use is not recommended for developers.

    ```cangjie
    public static func springCurve(velocity: Float32, mass: Float32, stiffness: Float32, damping: Float32): ICurve
    ```